
Basic structure of a Java program  
A Java program ( class) is either a library of
static methods (functions) or a data type definition. To create libraries of static methods
and data-type definitions, we use the following five components, the basis of program-
ming in Java and many other modern languages:
■  Primitive data types precisely define the meaning of terms like integer, real num-
ber, and boolean value within a computer program. Their definition includes the
set of possible values and operations on those values, which can be combined
into expressions like mathematical expressions that define values.

■  Statements allow us to define a computation by creating and assigning values to
variables, controlling execution flow, or causing side effects. We use six types of
statements: declarations, assignments(分配 赋值), conditionals, loops, calls, and returns.

■  Arrays allow us to work with multiple values of the same type.

■  Static methods allow us to encapsulate and reuse code and to develop programs
as a set of independent modules.

■  Strings are sequences of characters. Some operations on them are built in to Java.

■  Input/output sets up communication between programs and the outside world.

■  Data abstraction extends encapsulation and reuse to allow us to define non-
primitive data types, thus supporting object-oriented programming.

+++Arrays  
An array stores a sequence of values that are all of the same type. We want
not only to store values but also to access each individual value. The method that we
use to refer to individual values in an array is numbering and then indexing them. If
we have N values, we think of them as being numbered from 0 to N?1. Then, we can
unambiguously specify one of them in Java code by using the notation  a[i] to refer to
the  i th value for any value of  i from  0 to  N-1 . This Java construct is known as a one-
dimensional array.
+++++Creating and initializing an array.  Making an array in a Java program involves three
distinct steps:
■  Declare the array name and type.
■  Create the array.
■  Initialize the array values.
